chore(cloudflare): add deprecated tags (#192)
withastro/adapters: .changeset/flat-pears-hug.md

---
'@astrojs/cloudflare': minor
---

> Deprecates the following adapter options:
> _(We strongly recommend upgrading to v10 upon its release. To ensure a smooth migration, we commit to at least 4 weeks of additional maintenance for v9 following the release of v10. During this period, we will actively assist with migration efforts to ensure that all users can transition without major issues.)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prepares for major breaking changes to adapter configuration in the upcoming v10 release.

_(Full documentation to help you migrate your project to the upgraded Cloudflare adapter will be provided with the release of v10.0.)_

**Deprecates** the following adapter configuration options (to be **removed entirely in v10**):
```

> - **`mode`:** (Removed in v10) The new default is using Cloudflare's [advanced mode](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/advanced-mode/), after consulting with them. [Cloudflare Functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/get-started/) are not supported anymore, please migrate to [Astro Endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/endpoints/).
> 
> - **`functionPerRoute`:** (Removed in v10) Discontinued due to Cloudflare's single execution context approach. This change shouldn't have direct impact on you.
> 
> - **`routes.strategy`:** (Removed in v10) You should now utilize auto-generated `_route.json` or provide your own `public/_routes.json` for route management. This change aims to eliminate confusion and promote consistency.
> 
> - **`routes.include`:** (Removed in v10) Use `routes.extend.include` instead.
> 
> - **`routes.exclude`:** (Removed in v10) Use `routes.extend.exclude` instead.
> 
> - **`runtime`:** (Removed in v10) Requires specifying bindings in `wrangler.toml`. Use `platformProxy` instead. If you currently define your local runtime bindings in your Astro config, please move them to `wrangler.toml` as described in the [adapters documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#cloudflare-workers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`mode`:** All projects will deploy to Cloudflare pages using [advanced mode](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/advanced-mode/) (the previous default setting). This is no longer a configurable option. [Cloudflare Functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/get-started/) will no longer be supported. If you were using `mode: 'directory'`, please migrate to [Astro Endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/endpoints/).

- **`functionPerRoute`:** Discontinued due to Cloudflare's single execution context approach. You will no longer have the option to compile a separate bundle for each page.

- **`routes.strategy`:** Projects will use the auto-generated `_route.json` for route management unless you [provide your own `public/_routes.json`](/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#custom-_routesjson). This change aims to eliminate confusion and promote consistency.

- **`routes.include`:** Will be replaced by a new `routes.extend.include` option to allow you to include additional routes.

- **`routes.exclude`:** Will be replaced by a new `routes.extend.exclude` option to allow you to exclude additional routes.

- **`runtime`:** Local runtime bindings will be configured in `wrangler.toml` at the root of your project as described in the [adapters documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#cloudflare-workers). You will no longer configure these directly in the adapter configuration. A new `platformProxy` setting will be introduced to... (WHAT IS THIS???)
```

> These changes are part of ongoing efforts to streamline functionality, improve performance, and align with best practices and platform capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes are part of ongoing efforts to streamline functionality, improve performance, and align with best practices and platform capabilities.

We strongly recommend upgrading to v10 upon its release. To ensure a smooth migration, we commit to at least 4 weeks of additional maintenance for v9 following the release of v10. During this period, we will actively assist with migration efforts to ensure that all users can transition without major issues.
```

- **`mode`:** All projects will deploy to Cloudflare pages using [advanced mode](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/advanced-mode/) (the previous default setting). This is no longer a configurable option. [Cloudflare Functions](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/get-started/) will no longer be supported. If you were using `mode: 'directory'`, please migrate to [Astro Endpoints](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/endpoints/).

- **`functionPerRoute`:** Discontinued due to Cloudflare's single execution context approach. You will no longer have the option to compile a separate bundle for each page.

- **`routes.strategy`:** Projects will use the auto-generated `_route.json` for route management unless you [provide your own `public/_routes.json`](/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#custom-_routesjson). This change aims to eliminate confusion and promote consistency.

- **`routes.include`:** Will be replaced by a new `routes.extend.include` option to allow you to include additional routes.

- **`routes.exclude`:** Will be replaced by a new `routes.extend.exclude` option to allow you to exclude additional routes.

> - **`runtime`:** Local runtime bindings will be configured in `wrangler.toml` at the root of your project as described in the [adapters documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#cloudflare-workers). You will no longer configure these directly in the adapter configuration. A new `platformProxy` setting will be introduced to... (WHAT IS THIS???)

Author: ```suggestion
- **`runtime`:** Local runtime bindings will be configured in `wrangler.toml` at the root of your project as described in the [adapters documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/#cloudflare-workers). You will no longer configure these directly in the adapter configuration. A new `platformProxy` setting will be introduced to enable and configure the platformProxy (local runtime) provided by wrangler. 
```

---
'@astrojs/cloudflare': minor
---

> Deprecates adapter options

Reviewer: Does it deprecate ALL the options? Just some of them? I think it would be helpful to be explicit here:

e.g.

> Deprecates the following adapter options:

> Deprecates all of the current adapter options except:

And for the sake of making it easier for people to figure out, so that they don't have to jump into the code to learn what happened, I would honestly put your code comments here in this changelog. That's what this space is for, to tell people what *changed* and what their options are!
